readme.md, before:

# ffmpeg-concat

> Concats a list of videos together using ffmpeg with sexy OpenGL transitions.

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ffmpeg-concat.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ffmpeg-concat) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/transitive-bullshit/ffmpeg-concat.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/transitive-bullshit/ffmpeg-concat) [![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/transitive-bullshit/ffmpeg-concat/master/media/example.gif)

*(example of 9 videos concatenated together with unique transitions)*

*(note that the quality and fps is only poor due to the GIF preview; [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/transitive-bullshit/ffmpeg-concat/master/media/example.mp4) is the original)*


## Intro

[FFmpeg](http://ffmpeg.org/) is the defacto standard in command-line video editing, but it is really difficult to concatenate videos together using non-trivial transitions. Here are some [convoluted](https://superuser.com/questions/778762/crossfade-between-2-videos-using-ffmpeg) [examples](https://video.stackexchange.com/questions/17502/concate-two-video-file-with-fade-effect-with-ffmpeg-in-linux) of a simple cross-fade between two videos. FFmpeg filter graphs are extremely powerful, but for implementing transitions, they are just too complicated and error-prone.

[GL Transitions](https://gl-transitions.com/), on the other hand, is a great open source initiative spearheaded by [Gaëtan Renaudeau](https://github.com/gre) that is aimed at using GLSL to establish a universal [collection](https://gl-transitions.com/gallery) of transitions. Its extremely simple spec makes it really easy to customize existing transitions or write your own as opposed to struggling with complex ffmpeg filter graphs.

**This module and CLI make it easy to concat videos together using gl-transitions.**


## Install

This module requires [ffmpeg](http://ffmpeg.org/) to be installed.

```bash
npm install --save ffmpeg-concat

# or if you want to use the CLI
npm install -g ffmpeg-concat
```


## CLI

```sh
  Usage: ffmpeg-concat [options] <videos...>

  Options:

    -V, --version                         output the version number
    -o, --output <output>                 path to mp4 file to write (default: out.mp4)
    -t, --transition-name <name>          name of gl-transition to use (default: fade)
    -d, --transition-duration <duration>  duration of transition to use in ms (default: 500)
    -T, --transitions <file>              json file to load transitions from
    -f, --frame-format <format>           format to use for temp frame images (default: raw)
    -C, --no-cleanup-frames               disables cleaning up temp frame images
    -h, --help                            output usage information

  Example:

    ffmpeg-concat -t circleopen -d 750 -o huzzah.mp4 0.mp4 1.mp4 2.mp4
```


## Usage

```js
const concat = require('ffmpeg-concat')

// concat 3 mp4s together using 2 500ms directionalWipe transitions
await concat({
  output: 'test.mp4',
  videos: [
    'media/0.mp4',
    'media/1.mp4',
    'media/2.mp4'
  ],
  transition: {
    name: 'directionalWipe',
    duration: 500
  }
})
```

```js
// concat 5 mp4s together using 4 different transitions
await concat({
  output: 'test.mp4',
  videos: [
    'media/0.mp4',
    'media/1.mp4',
    'media/2.mp4',
    'media/0.mp4',
    'media/1.mp4'
  ],
  transitions: [
    {
      name: 'circleOpen',
      duration: 1000
    },
    {
      name: 'crossWarp',
      duration: 800
    },
    {
      name: 'directionalWarp',
      duration: 500
    },
    {
      name: 'squaresWire',
      duration: 2000
    }
  ]
})
```


## API

### concat(options)

Concatenates video files together along with OpenGL transitions. Returns a `Promise` for when the output video has been written.

Note that you must specify `videos`, `output`, and either `transition` or `transitions`.

Note that the output video's size and fps are determined by the first input video.

#### options

##### videos

Type: `Array<String>`
**Required**

Array of videos to concat, where each item is a path or URL to a video file.

##### output

Type: `String`
**Required**

Path to an `mp4` video file to write.

Note: we currently only support outputting to mp4; please open an issue if you'd like to see support for more formats.

##### transition

Type: `Object`

Specifies a default transition to be used between each video.

Note that you must specify either `transition` or `transitions`, depending on how much control you want over each transition. If you specify both, `transitions` takes precedence.

```js
// example
const transition = {
  duration: 1000, // ms
  name: 'directionalwipe' // gl-transition name to use (will match with lower-casing)
}
```

##### transitions

Type: `Array<Object>`

Specifies a (possibly unique) transition between each video. If there are N videos, then there should be N - 1 transitions.

Note that you must specify either `transition` or `transitions`, depending on how much control you want over each transition. If you specify both, `transitions` takes precedence.

```js
// example
const transitions = [
  {
    duration: 1000,
    name: 'fade'
  },
  {
    duration: 500,
    name: 'swap'
  }
]
```

##### frameFormat

Type: `string`
Default: `raw`

The format for temporary frame images. You may, for example, use `png` or `jpg`.

Note: the default is `raw` for performance reasons, as writing and reading raw binary pixel data is much faster than encoding and decoding `png` frames. Raw format is difficult to preview and debug, however, in which case you may want to change `frameFormat` to `png`.

##### cleanupFrames

Type: `boolean`
Default: `true`

By default, we cleanup temporary frame images. Set this to `false` if you need to debug intermediate results.

##### log

Type: `Function`
Default: `noop`

Optional function to log progress and the underlying ffmpeg commands. You may, for example, use `console.log`


## Transitions

Here are some [gl-transitions](https://gl-transitions.com/) that I've found particularly useful for quality video transitions:

- [fade](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/fade)
- [fadegrayscale](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/fadegrayscale)
- [circleopen](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/circleopen)
- [directionalwarp](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/directionalwarp)
- [directionalwipe](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/directionalwipe)
- [crosswarp](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/crosswarp)
- [crosszoom](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/CrossZoom)
- [dreamy](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/Dreamy)
- [squareswire](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/squareswire)
- [angular](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/angular)
- [radial](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/Radial)
- [cube](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/cube)
- [swap](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/swap)


## Related

- [ffmpeg-gl-transition](https://github.com/transitive-bullshit/ffmpeg-gl-transition) - Low-level ffmpeg filter for applying GLSL transitions between video streams ([gl-transitions](https://gl-transitions.com/)). It allows the use of more advanced and customizable filter graphs, but it requires you to build a custom version of ffmpeg.
- [gl-transitions](https://gl-transitions.com/) - Collection of GLSL transitions.
- [fluent-ffmpeg](https://github.com/fluent-ffmpeg/node-fluent-ffmpeg) - Underlying ffmpeg wrapper library.


## License

MIT © [Travis Fischer](https://github.com/transitive-bullshit)

Commit message:

add concurrency to cli and readme

readme.md, after:

# ffmpeg-concat

> Concats a list of videos together using ffmpeg with sexy OpenGL transitions.

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ffmpeg-concat.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ffmpeg-concat) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/transitive-bullshit/ffmpeg-concat.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/transitive-bullshit/ffmpeg-concat) [![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/transitive-bullshit/ffmpeg-concat/master/media/example.gif)

*(example of 9 videos concatenated together with unique transitions)*

*(note that the quality and fps is only poor due to the GIF preview; [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/transitive-bullshit/ffmpeg-concat/master/media/example.mp4) is the original)*


## Intro

[FFmpeg](http://ffmpeg.org/) is the defacto standard in command-line video editing, but it is really difficult to concatenate videos together using non-trivial transitions. Here are some [convoluted](https://superuser.com/questions/778762/crossfade-between-2-videos-using-ffmpeg) [examples](https://video.stackexchange.com/questions/17502/concate-two-video-file-with-fade-effect-with-ffmpeg-in-linux) of a simple cross-fade between two videos. FFmpeg filter graphs are extremely powerful, but for implementing transitions, they are just too complicated and error-prone.

[GL Transitions](https://gl-transitions.com/), on the other hand, is a great open source initiative spearheaded by [Gaëtan Renaudeau](https://github.com/gre) that is aimed at using GLSL to establish a universal [collection](https://gl-transitions.com/gallery) of transitions. Its extremely simple spec makes it really easy to customize existing transitions or write your own as opposed to struggling with complex ffmpeg filter graphs.

**This module and CLI make it easy to concat videos together using gl-transitions.**


## Install

This module requires [ffmpeg](http://ffmpeg.org/) to be installed.

```bash
npm install --save ffmpeg-concat

# or if you want to use the CLI
npm install -g ffmpeg-concat
```


## CLI

```sh
  Usage: ffmpeg-concat [options] <videos...>

  Options:

    -V, --version                         output the version number
    -o, --output <output>                 path to mp4 file to write (default: out.mp4)
    -t, --transition-name <name>          name of gl-transition to use (default: fade)
    -d, --transition-duration <duration>  duration of transition to use in ms (default: 500)
    -T, --transitions <file>              json file to load transitions from
    -f, --frame-format <format>           format to use for temp frame images (default: raw)
    -c, --concurrency <number>            number of videos to process in parallel (default: 4)
    -C, --no-cleanup-frames               disables cleaning up temp frame images
    -h, --help                            output usage information

  Example:

    ffmpeg-concat -t circleopen -d 750 -o huzzah.mp4 0.mp4 1.mp4 2.mp4
```


## Usage

```js
const concat = require('ffmpeg-concat')

// concat 3 mp4s together using 2 500ms directionalWipe transitions
await concat({
  output: 'test.mp4',
  videos: [
    'media/0.mp4',
    'media/1.mp4',
    'media/2.mp4'
  ],
  transition: {
    name: 'directionalWipe',
    duration: 500
  }
})
```

```js
// concat 5 mp4s together using 4 different transitions
await concat({
  output: 'test.mp4',
  videos: [
    'media/0.mp4',
    'media/1.mp4',
    'media/2.mp4',
    'media/0.mp4',
    'media/1.mp4'
  ],
  transitions: [
    {
      name: 'circleOpen',
      duration: 1000
    },
    {
      name: 'crossWarp',
      duration: 800
    },
    {
      name: 'directionalWarp',
      duration: 500
    },
    {
      name: 'squaresWire',
      duration: 2000
    }
  ]
})
```


## API

### concat(options)

Concatenates video files together along with OpenGL transitions. Returns a `Promise` for when the output video has been written.

Note that you must specify `videos`, `output`, and either `transition` or `transitions`.

Note that the output video's size and fps are determined by the first input video.

#### options

##### videos

Type: `Array<String>`
**Required**

Array of videos to concat, where each item is a path or URL to a video file.

##### output

Type: `String`
**Required**

Path to an `mp4` video file to write.

Note: we currently only support outputting to mp4; please open an issue if you'd like to see support for more formats.

##### transition

Type: `Object`

Specifies a default transition to be used between each video.

Note that you must specify either `transition` or `transitions`, depending on how much control you want over each transition. If you specify both, `transitions` takes precedence.

```js
// example
const transition = {
  duration: 1000, // ms
  name: 'directionalwipe' // gl-transition name to use (will match with lower-casing)
}
```

##### transitions

Type: `Array<Object>`

Specifies a (possibly unique) transition between each video. If there are N videos, then there should be N - 1 transitions.

Note that you must specify either `transition` or `transitions`, depending on how much control you want over each transition. If you specify both, `transitions` takes precedence.

```js
// example
const transitions = [
  {
    duration: 1000,
    name: 'fade'
  },
  {
    duration: 500,
    name: 'swap'
  }
]
```

##### frameFormat

Type: `string`
Default: `raw`

The format for temporary frame images. You may, for example, use `png` or `jpg`.

Note: the default is `raw` for performance reasons, as writing and reading raw binary pixel data is much faster than encoding and decoding `png` frames. Raw format is difficult to preview and debug, however, in which case you may want to change `frameFormat` to `png`.

##### cleanupFrames

Type: `boolean`
Default: `true`

By default, we cleanup temporary frame images. Set this to `false` if you need to debug intermediate results.

##### concurrency

Type: `Number`
Default: `4`

Max number of videos to process in parallel.

##### log

Type: `Function`
Default: `noop`

Optional function to log progress and the underlying ffmpeg commands. You may, for example, use `console.log`


## Transitions

Here are some [gl-transitions](https://gl-transitions.com/) that I've found particularly useful for quality video transitions:

- [fade](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/fade)
- [fadegrayscale](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/fadegrayscale)
- [circleopen](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/circleopen)
- [directionalwarp](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/directionalwarp)
- [directionalwipe](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/directionalwipe)
- [crosswarp](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/crosswarp)
- [crosszoom](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/CrossZoom)
- [dreamy](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/Dreamy)
- [squareswire](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/squareswire)
- [angular](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/angular)
- [radial](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/Radial)
- [cube](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/cube)
- [swap](https://gl-transitions.com/editor/swap)


## Related

- [ffmpeg-gl-transition](https://github.com/transitive-bullshit/ffmpeg-gl-transition) - Low-level ffmpeg filter for applying GLSL transitions between video streams ([gl-transitions](https://gl-transitions.com/)). It allows the use of more advanced and customizable filter graphs, but it requires you to build a custom version of ffmpeg.
- [gl-transitions](https://gl-transitions.com/) - Collection of GLSL transitions.
- [fluent-ffmpeg](https://github.com/fluent-ffmpeg/node-fluent-ffmpeg) - Underlying ffmpeg wrapper library.


## License

MIT © [Travis Fischer](https://github.com/transitive-bullshit)
